TIE-02201 Ohjelmointi 2
Mauri Leino, mauri.leino@tuni.fi
Tetris

This is a Tetris-style game for one player. The rules of the game and most of
program behaviour are described in this document.

When the program opens, two buttons are enabled: Quit, and Start Game. Whenever
user clicks the Quit button or presses Q on their keyboard, the program closes.

By pressing Start Game, the user can start playing the game. In the top left
corner is a timer from which the user can read how long they have been playing
the current game. First dial shows minutes, and the second one shows seconds.
Timer starts when Start Game is clicked and the first tetromino will start
dropping from the top of the screen. Under the timer there are dials for
points, lines showing number of cleared lines, and difficulty level.

When the game starts, buttons controlling movement of tetrominos are enabled,
and the Start Game -button will read Pause Game. For each type of tetromino the
generation point is fixed, and it is about in the middle of the playing area.
In the source code, namespace Tetromino represents a vector containing pointers
to the graphic objects the tetromino contains. At a time there is one Tetromino-
type object, a shared pointer currentTetromino_, which points to the tetromino
currently in play.

Tetrominos can be moved left and right on the screen using buttons, and from
Bring Down -button they can be dropped all the way at once. Player can also
control tetrominos using A, S and D keys, for moving the tetromino left, down
and right, respectively. Tetromino can be rotated 90 degrees clockwise using the
Rotate button or by pressing the W key. Rotation axis is fixed, and required
spaces need to be free, i. e. tetromino is not moved away from walls
automatically, for example.

The dropping rate of tetrominos increases over progression, starting at one step
per second. Every ten cleared lines the difficulty level will increase, taking
away .1 seconds per step. Maximum difficulty is level 9, in which tetromino drops
one step every .2 seconds. For this purpose there are two timers in the program.
One is for tracking time used, and the other controls the dropping of tetrominos.
When tetromino hits bottom or previously placed tetrominos, a new tetromino is
generated automatically. Player has until the current time step is over to move
the tetromino horizontally. This allows sliding tetrominos under previous tetrominos.
From Pause Game player can pause the game, and movement controls are disabled
until game is continued from Continue.

After tetromino stops pointers to blocks it contains are stored in a 2D vector
squares_ so that each sub-vector contains the blocks that are on the same height,
or on the same row. These vectors representing rows are used when checking if
tetromino is as low as it can go, if there are full rows to be removed and after
removing full rows if some rows can be moved lower.

The game will end when generated tetromino initially overlaps previous tetromino
before moving. In the case of game over, all other buttons are disabled except
for the Reset button which will read New Game, which resets time and points to
zero, and clears the playing area, same as clicking Reset at any point during
game. Until that, time, points and playing area remain for the player to admire.
The player is also infromed about the number of Tetris' they achieve, Tetris
being removal of four lines at once.

Player receives 2 points for every row the tetromino is dropped when Bring Down
button or S key is clicked. Full rows are removed and rows above them are moved
lower accordingly. Each row removed awards player with 50 points. Doing a Tetris
gives no extra points.
